[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
OK, everyone, we're
going to have an incredible
journey with author Miguel
Connor, tripping through
the life of Elvis Presley.
Though he was and still
is a global phenomenon,
I had no idea who the man was.
A cultural game changer
internationally,
and inspiration for countless
recording artists and a highly
advanced magician and healer.
Yet he couldn't integrate his
divinity with his earth life.
Miguel, welcome.
I've been so waiting
for this conversation.
I just ate your book
up with a big spoon.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MIGUEL CONNER:
Glad you enjoyed it.
>>REGINA: I loved it.
Before we even
get going on this,
it's such a rich book going in
to all of the mystery history
around Elvis.
And it's been written
about here and there,
but you put the whole thing
together so beautifully.
And most people don't
know this about him.
You know, they've
seen the movies
where he studied a
little bit of Yogananda,
but that's about
as far as it goes.
So first of all, how did you
get yourself in a situation
to be writing about Elvis?
And I know it has to do
with a little journey work.
>>CONNER: [LAUGHS] Yeah, I wish
I could say I have a vision
that nobody has,
but that's not true.
We all have a purpose.
We all have a calling.
Nobody's calling is more
important than anybody else's.
But I was honestly called to
this, and I was surprised.
All my life I was
a Beatles person.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's right.
You weren't a Presley fan.
>>CONNER: I never
listened to Presley.
My parents didn't like him.
I thought he was OK.
And there was a time I
respect, as I got older,
for his influence
on rock and roll
and like people, I had read
about his eccentricities, again,
Yogananda, meditation,
some UFO, but I just
thought he was just another
eccentric rock star, right?
Whether you're David Bowie or
Ronald Reagan or you know--
we all think that our stars are
supposed to be eccentric and be
into the esoteric, and then
we shelve it and, like--
Well, as long as they're
giving us the entertainment.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: And the same with
the Beatles and Hinduism.
That's all I thought of him.
But it was a 2022, I started
having these strange Elvis sings
and it could be
something on my podcast.
I remember
interviewing a lady who
mentioned she had dated David
Stanley, Elvis's stepbrother,
after Vernon remarried
after Gladys's death,
while Elvis was in the Army.
They had dated and
they'd done this film,
and she mentioned some of
his supernatural things
and there was a spark
because I remember
hearing about this
10 years earlier,
and this time it stuck with me.
And I'm like, this is
amazing, but why didn't it
stick with me then?
Why is it sticking to me now?
Then there'd be all
these other signs.
Suddenly, you know, I
would go out at a store
and Elvis is playing.
Things like that.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>CONNER: It culminated--
I went back to my homeland
in Lisbon, Portugal.
My uncle is the patriarch of
the Santo Daime Church, which
is a mystical Christian
group from Brazil,
from the Amazon that does
ayahuasca combined with very
esoteric Christian thought.
And I did two works,
as they call them.
>>REGINA: Journeys?
>>CONNER: Eight hours.
Yes, brutal journeys,
ego death, astral
travel, but very therapeutic.
Therapy can be brutal.
>>REGINA: Yeah, Yeah.
>>CONNER: Our egos don't
like to be challenged.
>>REGINA: Yeah, true.
>>CONNER: But it was a
great, great experience.
I loved doing these.
But after that, the
floodgate would open.
It was like I couldn't
stop listening to Elvis.
I would do things like I
would walk into the house
and my aunt would be
like, what about Elvis?
And I'd be like, ah!
And I realized she was
looking at Baz Luhrmann's
movie on the TV and
she was just asking me,
have you watched the movie?
But it was all--
>>REGINA: It was coming at
you from every direction.
>>CONNER: Every direction.
Dreams, voices in my head.
Halloween.
I don't dress up for Halloween.
I have young kids.
It's their time.
I had this strange kick
of dressing up like Elvis.
I have a podcast.
I was doing my podcast in
October dressed as Elvis,
and my audience thought
I'd lost my mind,
and it just kept saying--
and this idea of the
occultism, of the missing life,
it just kept getting
stronger and stronger.
And I knew there was a book
there, but at the same time,
I was like, I'm
not a biographer.
It kept getting worse.
By January, I was having
really bad hip problems.
I couldn't eat, I could
barely walk my dogs.
I was like, even with that bill.
And I kept saying,
oh my god, I'm
going to have to get
a hip replacement.
And then I went, oh
my god, hip, pelvis.
I said, I know exactly
what you're doing.
So on February 1, 2023, I sat
down in the middle of the cold,
11:00 at night, kids are in bed.
One biography of Elvis by my
side and I started writing it.
The pain went away.
The book came out.
Three months later I had
finished the first draft.
Six months later it was
signed by the publisher.
>>REGINA: That is really fast
too, for a project like that.
It doesn't normally
happen that way.
And so also we're going to find
out later in the conversation.
Elvis did approach a lot
of people after death.
He was in a lot of
people's lives and dreams.
And when he wanted
to fix something
or do something or have someone
do something, it got done.
He was as powerful after his
passing as he was in his life.
Let's just get into some of the
mystery starting with his mom.
She was in a Pentecostal
type of church
and she was a bit of a seer.
She was moving to the
Pentecostal music.
She was trancing out a
lot, and he was in utero
when she was trancing out.
>>CONNER: Very much.
I think Priscilla's right.
She said, there was no way
Elvis was going to be saved.
There was a demons or a
curse on that family, that
included his mother, Gladys.
And you can call it demons.
We call it witch blood,
a power, a second sight.
It's not an easy thing to have.
But it starts with his mother.
Probably goes up the line.
She could see shadow people.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: She had premonitions.
They were so poor that
sometimes if Elvis got sick,
like with a fever,
they would do healing.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CONNER: And they would do it.
But yes, she was a
very avid Pentecostal.
And as I write in the book,
Pentecostalism, as scholars
have seen, is shamanistic.
>>REGINA: It is.
But she also passed
this on to him.
>>CONNER: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: And so let's talk
about-- let's kind of move
on toward his birth.
And a lot of people
don't know that she
was pregnant with twins.
So let's talk about the
eerie kind of environment
surrounding his birth
that scared the poo out
of Vernon, his father.
>>CONNER: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: So to set it up--
tee it up, let's talk about it.
>>CONNER: It started before.
She didn't know she was going to
have twins when she was pregnant
and she was having
bad premonition.
She was going to church
every night for hours.
And again, Pentecostalism,
it was almost
as Jesus is getting too close
to sex because in the South
you would go into an
altered state of mind.
So she was there all
night, moving sometimes
out in the fields.
>>REGINA: Right.
Kind of like static movement.
>>CONNER: Very much.
Instead of being
possessed by Dionysus,
you'd be possessed
by the Holy Spirit.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CONNER: But it
was kind of that.
And she was going every night,
but she was having twins.
As research tells us,
twins hear the noise.
They hear the music when
they're in the womb.
Yeah, think of doing
that eight hours a day.
And eventually, she
went into labor.
They were so poor back
in Tupelo, Mississippi,
that they couldn't
afford a doctor.
Had to be done with midwives
in their little house,
that it was a shack
with an outhouse.
Things didn't go well.
Elvis's brother, Jesse, was
born and he was born stillborn.
35 minutes, Elvis
comes out and it was--
and before that, as
you said, premonition.
While Gladys is having
a terrible labor,
he goes out to have a cigarette.
This blue light
comes over the house
and it floods the entire house.
Vernon said the coyotes
stopped howling.
You can hear the trees.
>>REGINA: Dead silence.
>>CONNER: And he was so
freaked out, he ran in,
but he ran into a tragedy,
so he forgot about it.
Later, they would revisit this.
Elvis would bring it up.
We can talk about that.
>>REGINA: And now
we would assume
there was some other
presence there,
perhaps an extraterrestrial
presence at his birth.
>>CONNER: And this
followed him most
of his life in different ways.
He had many experiences.
And also there's a story.
There was two dolls
on top of the shelf
and during Gladys's labor.
One doll fell.
There was this omen.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CONNER: But right
there that was a tragedy
and the supernatural were
right there with Elvis
'cause imagine how horrible.
It was a terrible
shock, a terrible shock.
>>REGINA: And when
she lost Jesse,
it really became the
focus of her life to save,
to protect Elvis.
And this became obsessive
to a ridiculous extent.
>>CONNER: It became abusive.
>>REGINA: It became abusive.
She just wouldn't let him live.
>>CONNER: Lethal enmeshment.
We call it helicopter parenting.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: But it's actually
a form of psychosis.
You can't blame her because
she went to the hospital.
They told her she could
not conceive anymore.
So all she had--
>>REGINA: Everything
was on Elvis.
>>CONNER: Little Elvis.
>>REGINA: And Elvis was aware
from an early age about Jesse,
his brother, and he always lived
alongside him, it sounds like.
He was almost like a spirit
guide to Elvis, Jesse was.
And that's how
Elvis perceived him.
>>CONNER: Very much.
He was a voice in his head.
He appeared in dreams.
He appeared in visions.
He was like his
consciousness or I
call him his daemon,
his sort of higher self.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: Guardian angel.
>>CONNER: It became--
just as Elvis
became Gladys's obsession,
Jesse became Elvis's obsession
because twinless survivors,
as research shows us,
are very much broken already.
They live full of guilt.
It's like, why did he die
and I didn't die?
We were together in
this wonderful lagoon
and my soulmate's gone.
And it haunted Elvis.
But it also made
him want to seek
the bigger questions in life.
You know, why did this happen?
Why did I grow up poor?
If we'd been in a
hospital, Jesse probably--
>>REGINA: Maybe he
would have lived.
>>CONNER: And this guilt.
And twinless survivors
are very spiritual,
very self-destructive,
addictive prone, hard at making
connections, workaholics.
And you see this in history
from Liberace, Philip K Dick.
Other figures who lost
their twins at birth
have this same
trajectory as Elvis.
>>REGINA: And it's
hard even when they
lose their twin later in life.
I have someone I'm very close
to and kind of lost his bearings
after his twin died.
>>CONNER: Mhm.
>>REGINA: Just was not
sure who was thinking.
Was this him?
Was it his twin?
And he didn't even
understand how enmeshed
they were until he was gone.
And he became pretty much lost.
>>CONNER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Emotionally lost.
>>CONNER: Regardless.
>>REGINA: Regardless.
>>CONNER: --your twin.
>>REGINA: So now
she's on a mission.
Nothing's going to happen
to Elvis on her watch.
And Elvis, let's talk about him
a little bit as a little guy.
Because what I loved were the
stories of his sensitivity.
He was a little blonde.
First of all, Elvis was blonde.
>>CONNER: He was a blonde.
>>REGINA: We will get
into that in a minute.
And you can tell that story.
He loved comic books.
Captain Marvel Jr. was his hero
and who he fashioned his life
after, right?
>>CONNER: Very much.
>>REGINA: But talk about him as
a person and just his generosity
was just so--
divine.
>>CONNER: Yeah.
And say what you want about--
Gladys and Vernon
were very good.
They always taught
Elvis we are all equal--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CONNER: --under
the eyes of God.
Nobody's better.
Money doesn't make you better.
All races and creeds have value.
And Elvis grew up with that.
And they were so poor, some
nights all they could eat
was cornbread and water.
They were homeless.
We're talking--
>>REGINA: Yeah, homeless.
>>CONNER: Southern people
and the depression,
it was bad in Mississippi.
And he was still so giving.
One time, his parents finally
were able to afford a bicycle.
They gave it to Elvis and
he gave it away that day
on Christmas.
He gave it to a neighbor.
That's how kind he was.
And he was always helping out.
He was just a wonderful, curious
and spiritually curious boy
at a very young age.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, that's not normal.
If you're so poor and
you have so little,
most kids will do
anything to hang on
to it that he
would just freely--
but that remained a trait
throughout his entire life.
It actually remained a
trait after his life,
giving of his
energy, because we're
going to get into what
he did with energy.
What a master.
So now let's talk a little
bit about his obsession
with comic books
and Captain Marvel,
and how he developed his
look and his uniqueness.
He didn't care what
other people thought,
his unique way of dressing.
Let's get into that a bit.
>>CONNER: No, no.
I mean, one thing
about Elvis, Elvis
did what Elvis wanted to do.
Especially when
it came to style.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: And he was way ahead.
I mean, yes, he loved comic
books because, as you mentioned,
Captain Marvel Jr. was
a handicapped boy, who
would turn into a superhero.
And Elvis always said,
where's this magic, where
this poor lost
boy in Mississippi
can become a hero to others?
And you look at his
Vegas outfits, of course,
they're straight out
of Captain Marvel.
>>REGINA: His cape.
>>CONNER: The lightning
bolt, Captain Marvel,
Captain Marvel Jr. So Captain
Marvel was a huge influence
on Elvis as a dreamer.
And he likes science
fiction in general.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: He loved Gospel music.
He loved African American music.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CONNER: He was--
>>REGINA: It moved him.
>>CONNER: Yeah,
as a teenager, he
was already dressing up as
the latest Black fashion.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: Of course,
that got him in trouble.
People would call him
the N word at school.
>>REGINA: Well, he'd go
to Black congregations
just to be part of it and feel
the energy, feel the music.
I mean, it was probably one
of his greatest influences.
>>CONNER: Yeah.
And he was at the back.
It was like--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: --all Blacks.
And then the whites
got a little--
>>REGINA: Just reverse.
>>CONNER: He didn't care.
He didn't care.
>>REGINA: Mm-mm.
So then he ultimately-- well,
how old was when he started?
When he dyed his hair
black and started
doing that wave and everything
to take on the appearance?
>>CONNER: Pretty
early, in his teens.
>>REGINA: In his teens.
>>CONNER: Yeah, shoe
Polish and all that.
And again, that look,
people said, well,
he's trying to
imitate Tony Curtis.
I'm like, Captain Marvel.
>>REGINA: Captain--
Captain Marvel.
>>CONNER: That was his great
god or hero, if you would.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about how
music started coming
into his life in terms
of his ability, his
singing, for example.
Where he started
performing first?
When people started
realizing there
was something different
and special about him?
>>CONNER: I don't
think anybody did.
He loved singing.
It was almost--
but as a hobby, he
was into football and all
that, but strangely, he
started sort of hanging
out at Sun Records.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>CONNER: And he kept telling
the secretary there, well,
I just want to make
a tape for my mama,
even though Gladys
didn't have a--
>>REGINA: Gospel?
>>CONNER: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah, Gospel.
>>CONNER: But she didn't
have a recorder at home.
So it was very strange, but
he kept hanging out there
and one thing led to another.
He did the tape.
And then Sam Phillips
was making a supergroup.
And the secretary, she needs
to get a lot of credit,
was like, well, why don't
you put this Elvis kid?
He's good looking.
We don't know.
>>REGINA: He'd make
a nice album cover.
>>CONNER: There you go.
That's it, that's it.
>>REGINA: Even if he can't sing.
>>CONNER: And he
auditioned all day,
and he bombed the whole day.
>>REGINA: Oh, I love this part.
>>CONNER: And Sam Phillips was
like, ah, and he couldn't do it.
And Sam Phillips went
over here to lock up,
and Elvis said, oh my god.
And Elvis came out
with one of the,
back then, most of the raciest
or fringe song, which was That's
All Right, Mama, a
rhythm and blues song
that no white folk would play.
And Elvis, just on a
whim, decided to play that
and suddenly started doing--
the real Elvis came out.
>>REGINA: He started
channeling himself.
>>CONNER: Yes, he
started shaking.
And Sam Phillips was
on the room and said,
this is the sound I've been
looking for all my life.
This is a sound that transcends
white, Black, country.
And he just signed
Elvis on the spot.
>>REGINA: In your book, you
say there was a quote there.
He said, Elvis,
let the devil out.
>>CONNER: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: Exactly, because
that's what was missing.
Elvis was so into Gospel, but,
you know, that generation,
they wanted a little
darkness in their life.
They wanted some of that
blues and that trickster,
devilish music, that edginess.
And Elvis brought it out
with That's All Right, Mama.
>>REGINA: Yeah, she loved
the way it electrified
everyone in the room.
And he was like, they'd
never heard this before.
>>CONNER: Right.
>>REGINA: Because it transcended
even the Black Gospel music
and blues music that he'd
been playing, listening to,
and so forth.
There was something,
some Je ne sais quoi
that no one had
seen before, right?
>>CONNER: Yeah, I would
say Elvis was always
at the crossroads--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: --to talk about
the trickster, the devil.
Not like the Christian,
but the devil of the blues
and the African mythologies,
that liminal Bardo space
where even Elvis said, I
carry heaven and hell with me.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: And I
have to be careful.
And he was at that Robert
Johnson, the father
of modern blues, who
went to the crossroads,
and he made a deal
with the devil.
He actually died on the
same day Elvis died.
Strange, but--
>>REGINA: I didn't know that.
>>CONNER: Yeah, so I
always say Elvis was always
in this crossroads.
Even Memphis back
then was seeing--
they used to call it the
crossroad of North and South.
In Egyptian times,
Memphis, I think,
means the city and the border.
There's all these things.
Elvis was in the middle.
>>REGINA: He was
living between worlds.
>>CONNER: There you go.
What do shamans do?
They're in between the
worlds and they bring back
the art, the medicine.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>CONNER: The dangerous thing.
Sometimes the Prometheus,
the fire will burn you.
>>REGINA: The people
in the Black churches
were not happy about this
because that music was not
accepted.
Whether you were Black or white,
they did not like the blues.
>>CONNER: They hated the blues.
>>REGINA: They hated the
blues because they thought
it was the devil's music.
And he was taking the blues
to a whole new level [LAUGHS]
gyrating, losing control,
you know, pelvis gyrating.
>>CONNER: That's it, that's it.
>>REGINA: So let's
get into the times,
because this part
is really critical
that he chose to be born at
a time with the emergence
of television.
>>CONNER: Mm.
>>REGINA: I love
that part of the book
that it set the whole
thing up, that as a soul,
it was kind of a setup.
>>CONNER: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: He came
in at a time where
it was possible to be exposed
to millions upon millions
of people that hadn't
been possible before.
So set it up for us how
television was rolling out.
>>CONNER: Not just
television, mass media.
>>REGINA: Mass media and radio.
>>CONNER: Yeah, nobody
did it better than Elvis.
It's almost like he
was born to exploit--
Again, I call him a trickster.
They say, well, he
stole Black music.
What do you expect
from a trickster?
He exploited mess.
What do you expect?
He was a thief in the night.
He's the Pied Piper.
And again, talking
about the crossroads,
America was at a
huge crossroads.
We had gone from the depression
to World War II to post-war.
And suddenly, out of the
ashes of World War II,
this mighty empire came out.
This empire of satellites,
atomic bombs, mass media,
highways.
And it was a whole
different world.
And it was a psychic
shock for boomers
and the silent generation,
because the world had
never-- if you look at
technology, how it goes,
you go humanity,
technology goes like this,
and then it pops up with
the Sumerians, right?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: And then we're
chugging along, 1948, humanity
has never seen how we advance.
Now, whatever arguments
you want to say,
Nazis, extraterrestrials,
ingenuity, it doesn't matter.
But this world was--
>>REGINA: We were seeded with
technologies of all kinds that
were used in many different
ways, and one of them
became mass media,
transistors, et cetera.
>>CONNER: But it was such a hard
thing on the psyche of America.
Elvis, as I say, rock and
roll was a spiritual form.
It was this fusion
of blues and Gospel
that prepared a new generation
to handle this high technology,
these enemies on the
other side of the world,
this huge change in the American
psyche, Eisenhower's America,
and Elvis led the youth to this,
and he tapped into technology
to be able to go into
everybody's living
room, everybody's car.
And he brought this medicine,
the shamanistic medicine,
healing, which we
call rock and roll.
>>REGINA: And at that time, now
we're looking at September 9,
1956, he was on The
Ed Sullivan Show,
and no one had seen
anything like this.
But we have to understand
the reach of that show,
by that time.
I think you said--
tell me if I'm wrong--
I think you said that 82% of
households in America by 1956
had television sets, and his
share of the audience was?
>>CONNER: I think 2/3 of the
country was watching about that.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: 2/3 of the US was
watching Elvis emerge doing--
what-- not Heartbreak Hotel.
I know he did-- and one
of them You Ain't Nothing
But a Hound Dog.
What was the first one he did?
>>CONNER: I thought
it was Hound Dog.
I'm pretty sure.
>>REGINA: OK, OK.
Well, so this happens.
Now, something else happens.
And you and I were
talking off camera
and you used the right word.
It was almost as though
there was a teenage
and beyond Kundalini
awakening in the populace.
I mean, people swooned over
Frank Sinatra a little bit,
but not like this.
They were losing their minds.
They were screaming.
They were having
ecstatic experiences.
The girls could not
control themselves.
>>CONNER: No, it was like a
bacchanalia with the Maenads.
It was seriously.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: There was a
time where Elvis said--
somebody throws me their keys.
They can go-- he almost
got killed by the audience.
In the Baz Luhrmann movie, that
scene when he's doing Baby,
Let's Play House.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>CONNER: It was like that.
And as I write, it's not
like he awoken the Kundalini
in the female population.
Not even sexual, but power.
>>REGINA: Power.
>>CONNER: That psychic--
>>REGINA: Electricity.
>>CONNER: --feminine power.
Exactly.
And women suddenly
could see themselves
as independent
beings of agency who
had their own power
and independence.
He did so much and same
with-- and men could suddenly
see themselves, you
know, I can be vulnerable
and sort of softer.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
He was interesting.
He had this very smooth skin
and large lips, blue eyes,
very kind of sweet countenance,
almost, like very sensual.
>>CONNER: Very much.
And men could see that.
They say, I can have style.
Then they could see, you
know, Elvis is opening doors
to all these different forbidden
things like Black music
and Italian opera
and different things.
>>REGINA: Women getting
whipped up sexually.
>>CONNER: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: And their energy.
>>CONNER: Yeah.
And it really opened
the floodgates
and also helped people navigate
this new world of mass media
and technology.
It gave him a sense of
independence and power, both men
and women.
And it brought a huge light into
minority music and so much more.
I mean, it was a
huge psychic change.
>>REGINA: There was
nothing else like it
at that time anywhere
in the world.
I mean, he was a force.
So you say in the
book also that this
became the beginning
of what we would
call an independent
group of individuals
called teenagers, because
before people go to school,
they try to get
through high school,
get married or get a job.
There was none of this
rebellious teenage stuff.
And roughly till that
era until he came about.
>>CONNER: The word teenager
didn't exist until the 50s.
>>REGINA: Isn't
that interesting?
>>CONNER: You either
went from kid to adult.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: Suddenly this group
comes out and says, look,
our parents have money.
This is a world,
is freaking us out.
We want more, the old churches
and literature and art,
it ain't working.
We're not going to survive
what's coming down the pipe.
We want more.
And again, Elvis became
the manifestation
of their desires and hopes and
what they wanted out of life.
He was it.
>>REGINA: And his
appearance with that number
of people watching was not
eclipsed until the Apollo moon
landing, right?
>>CONNER: But then his
Aloha special, I think,
topped it in the early 70s.
>>REGINA: Yes!
>>CONNER: He wasn't going to
be second place for too long.
>>REGINA: But it
also kind set up
a divide between
parents and teenagers.
>>CONNER: Yes.
>>REGINA: This became a thing.
And so he was really forbidden.
A lot of parents did not want
their kids watching or listening
to Elvis Presley because he was
leading them down a dark path.
>>CONNER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Right?
In their opinion.
>>CONNER: Yes.
Call it independence
and finding--
yeah, his own pastor denouncing.
Billy Graham was public.
People in the government.
Yeah, he was a threat
to the status quo.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: A real threat.
>>REGINA: But for
him, didn't he feel
like he was sending
all his light
and healing energy
into the audience?
I mean, didn't he just
love being there for them?
I'm sure he loved the
energy coming back at him,
but it was also that he loved
projecting that out to people.
>>CONNER: Yes.
As we talked, the
lightning bolt, he said,
there's an electricity.
When I'm with my audience,
we go back and forth.
Again, I call it shamanism
or mystery school religion.
You and I have been to concerts.
We know we're not there
for entertainment.
We're there to heal.
We're there because
that person shows
us something about
ourselves we haven't seen.
And we heal with the audience.
We feel we belong.
>>REGINA: We wanna be swept into
it with a feeling of it all.
>>CONNER: It doesn't
matter if it's Taylor
Swift or the Grateful Dead.
Your mileage may vary,
but as I keep saying,
rock music was never a
form of entertainment.
It's a religion.
It's a form of spirituality.
We've forgotten that.
>>REGINA: And so
he was still quite
young at this time, what, 1920?
Something like that.
20 years old, and his mom dies.
They were inextricably
intertwined psychically
to a point that was
actually unhealthy.
So what happened?
Because everything
became about his mom.
This influenced his sex
life and everything else.
>>CONNER: He cannot have
relations with mothers.
If you had had a child,
it was off the table.
Yeah, he was very messed up.
Also, it was so sudden.
He didn't care about the money.
He just made the money so
his mom wouldn't be worried.
>>REGINA: Yeah because
he wanted to make
sure she had a decent
life because she
had a rough go of it.
>>CONNER: Yeah, and
his whole family.
>>REGINA: The whole family.
>>CONNER: And suddenly that--
>>REGINA: And everybody
around him, actually.
>>CONNER: Yeah, Yeah.
And that was gone.
And, again, it was very sudden.
The Army only gave
him two weeks to mourn
and they shipped
him off to Germany.
No therapy, no counseling.
So that really broke him.
In fact, when he went to
Germany, he was so depressed,
so down, when he started
discovering Esoterica,
he realized the Bible's
not working for me.
This book used to work
and no longer works.
And he remembered he'd
had a girlfriend that read
the prophet by Kahlil Gibran.
He thought about it
and he got a copy.
And he really read it,
and he started doing
aromatherapy, martial arts.
That was the beginning
between the pastors
and the Christian's turning on
him and the death of his mother.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>CONNER: That's when he
pivoted to the occult.
And the thing with his mother
is that almost that was part
of the curse, because he was
always going to be broken,
because without Gladys--
again, lost Gladys, Jesse,
but he had this obsession
about women that had her eyes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CONNER: Priscilla.
>>REGINA: Priscilla
had his mom's eyes.
>>CONNER: And when somebody
looked like his mother, Elvis,
that was it.
He was her slave.
Madame Blavatsky.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CONNER: He saw a picture
of HP Blavatsky and said,
she is my new teacher.
Daya Mata.
It's like, if you
look like his mother,
Elvis was going to worship
you and not leave you alone.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and
that did happen.
And there were complications
that went along with it.
And he went pretty far.
I mean, like you say, the
films and such, his karate.
He ended up eighth degree
black belt or something.
>>CONNER: He had like
three or four black belts.
>>REGINA: Very high level of
black belt. And he'd use it.
He'd use it.
If they got in fights
somewhere, he'd
pull it out every now and then.
And the interesting part is,
though, he was refining himself
and such a seeker on
an esoteric level,
he was not above a good
brawl in the streets.
Let's talk about that
part of his personality.
He'd come unglued
and just go for it.
>>CONNER: Yeah, yeah.
Remember, I mean, you can
go to YouTube and watch him.
His hands were a deadly weapon.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: So were his feet.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>CONNER: But he was
always armed to the teeth.
He was a true
American, like, cowboy.
But back in the 50s and 60s,
even 70s martial arts was
considered like a
forbidden thing.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>CONNER: But he really opened
the door to Bruce Lee and Chuck
Norris--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CONNER: --and all these guys
because he popularized it.
He started learning in the
50s because jealous boyfriends
and husbands would attack him.
And he's like, well,
I can't shoot him.
So he'd have to find
a better way to--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: --without
killing somebody.
And he got into it because
it helped his mind.
And he got his first black
belt in the late 50s,
and he was one out of 100,000
Americans with a black belt.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's amazing.
>>CONNER: Now, today you've got
tens, hundreds of thousands.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and he
was seriously dedicated
in a time when it wasn't cool.
>>CONNER: Yeah.
And he opened the floodgates and
made it acceptable for Americans
to embrace martial arts.
So it was a-- yeah,
and again, there
was the famous one
where he's driving
in his limo in Wisconsin, and
he sees two guys beating up
some gas station
attendant, and he
gets out and takes him outdoor.
I know there was a
fight, and the guy
tried to stand up
to him, and the guy
had a cigarettes in his pocket,
and he was, let me show you.
And he does a kick and he
knocks down his cigarettes
and the guy's like, if he can
do that to my cigarettes, what
he can do to my face?
I mean, he would break
boards and walls.
He liked his martial arts.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and he knew how
to control energy and master
energy.
So what we're going to do, we'll
hopscotch forward a little bit
because we want to get
into his esoteric training
and then how he
started using it.
His generosity continued
through his lifetime,
let's just say that.
As he had massive amounts of
money at certain points in life,
he would just pay
off people's houses.
It was nothing to him.
Anyone that needed someone
that was part of his tribe,
if he needed a new
kidney, it didn't matter,
elvis would take
care of it for you.
Very generous soul.
>>CONNER: Oh, incredible.
>>REGINA: And so now
he's starting to really
ensconce himself into
esoteric materials
like you said Blavatsky,
Yogananda, Manly P.
Hall, and so forth.
And this was kind of threatening
to the people around him.
Let's talk about that for a
moment because at one point,
as you stated in the book,
he really at one point
wanted to leave the world
behind and immerse himself
in these areas he felt
more comfortable in.
>>CONNER: Yeah, he wanted to
become a Buddhist or a monk
and the Yogananda
ashram in California.
Another time he wanted
to be a Christian monk,
but he was talked out
of it because the Daya
Mata, yogananda's successor,
was like-- you know.
And that's what a
lot of Eastern people
say, what have you Americans
got to go to the top
to be the lonely guy in--
you know?
Don't run away
from your problems.
You got to live the world.
Spiritual bypassing,
I think is the term.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so he stayed and
continued on with his career.
But he was not happy
with a lot of it.
So a lot has been
written about and said
and in movies, it's portrayed,
about Tom Parker, his manager.
So Tom Parker really propelled
him into the world stage
in his career.
But also what
happened is he knew
he was a money making machine
and he had his own demons.
He was a gambler.
He was losing a lot of money.
He was taking a lot
of money from Elvis.
Elvis wasn't really
aware of what
was going on because he didn't
care that much about money,
as long as he had his
cars and guns and buddies.
He started signing
him up with the studio
to do all these cheesy movies.
>>CONNER: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: And Elvis was starting
at this point to get depressed.
Now, this is after he
went into the Military.
He's already married now.
Well, at some point, he
became married to Priscilla.
They dated for a
long, long time.
Yeah, and so his spirit seemed
to start breaking a bit when he
had to do these cheesy films.
He was getting tired
of being portrayed
as a sex symbol
with no real talent
to the scripts or anything.
>>CONNER: Yeah, yeah.
And even Quentin Tarantino
said he was a talented actor.
He just was not getting the
Marlon Brando, Steve McQueen
roles.
But regardless, he
was just miserable.
>>REGINA: He was miserable.
>>CONNER: The material
life, the fame, the women,
it wasn't doing it for him.
And so he was getting really
angry and feeling empty.
And as they say, when
the student is ready,
the master will come.
And by a circumstance, he met
Larry Geller, who cut his hair.
Larry Geller was very
versed at all types of--
>>REGINA: Esoterica.
>>CONNER: Esoteric traditions.
And Elvis became his student
and Elvis embraced everything.
It doesn't matter if it's
Kabbalah, Gnosticism, Taoism.
Elvis embraced these
books, these teachings.
Then he met Daya
Mata, and he just
became a walking,
talking mystic,
for lack of better words.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: It's like this is what
he wanted because he finally
had purpose in his life.
He wanted to understand God.
He wanted to understand
his role to be
a healer, a even bigger healer.
And he was a very--
it's like he felt
he had purpose.
>>REGINA: He would even
carry as many as a couple
hundred books with him
when he went on tour.
>>CONNER: Always.
>>REGINA: So he had
access to anything
that his mind needed
to do that day.
And he meditated.
And so let's talk about
some of the healing
attributes that
started coming through
and people started being witness
to because this man had energy
and he understood
how to use the mind
to be able to direct
the blue light.
For him, it was the
blue light in the hands,
just like the blue
light in the cabin.
>>CONNER: Bingo!
That blue light followed him.
When you start looking at
his songs and costumes--
>>REGINA: Blue everywhere.
>>CONNER: Blue everywhere.
And he and Geller would
use this tradition
of the blue light for healing.
And again, Priscilla's
biography talks about,
if she had a headache,
it was just like this.
Minnie Mae's grandmother
cured her arthritis.
People would have nausea.
There was a singer,
her name was Shemwell
from The Sweet Inspirations,
he cured her cancer one time.
Broken legs.
I mean, he was doing--
>>REGINA: People watched
him heal broken legs.
You know, knitting
bones back together.
>>CONNER: Yes.
And whenever I write
something in the book,
there was lots of witnesses.
It was never--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>CONNER: You'll
never find me writing
about doing something alone.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: There were witnesses.
But Elvis's life was so crazy.
It's like people just, oh,
it's Elvis being Elvis.
>>REGINA: He didn't
make a deal out of it.
He just knew how to do it.
It's just like, OK, honey.
And he just take care
of it, and you're done.
He was generous with
his energy, just
as he was with everything else.
>>CONNER: Well,
like I said, he came
from the line of
Pentecostals where
you're supposed to heal others.
It's what you do.
And he began to get
telekinetic powers
where he could change the
weather or move clouds,
move objects like
bushes and all that.
And he always thought from
Yogananda that Yogananda always
said, look, if you're
going to do miracles,
it means you're
getting closer to God.
Don't get caught
on the miracles.
Get closer.
So he was very humble about
it, just became part of it.
And some were
funny, like the time
that he was with
Linda Thompson and he
bought a brand new Pantera
luxury car and it wouldn't
start.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>CONNER: And he got out
and he took out his gun
and he shot the car three times,
got in and the car started.
Linda Thompson's like, even
the car's scared of Elvis.
But he did these
things all the time.
These magic healings,
astral travel.
He would sit outside
and he would tell people
how to fly into the
star, even as a teenager.
And when he was
younger, he'd tell,
my mama told me
not to tell anybody
or we'll get kicked
out of the church.
It was like a gift.
But then later on, he
would try to teach people
how to astral travel, and
he'd go to the planets
in different places.
He could read minds,
predict the future.
It's all in the book.
And it's pretty startling.
>>REGINA: People have
to read this book.
And very polite, always
very polite and kind.
>>CONNER: Yes, sir.
No, sir.
>>REGINA: --trying to kick
someone's butt in a parking lot
if challenged.
But I mean, he was
generally a very polite--
>>CONNER: But then he let you
take pictures and give you
autographs.
He felt bad.
Like, sorry about that.
>>REGINA: Sorry, buddy.
You want a picture with me?
Yes, sir.
[LAUGHS] So his life
now at this point,
he couldn't really live
the life he wanted to live.
The only way he knew to
continue was with Parker
and everybody around him was
keep doing the Elvis gig.
Now it wasn't working
for him anymore.
And he had various
prescription drugs.
It was interesting.
He was kind of
anti-drugs, street drugs.
>>CONNER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But he took all
kinds of prescription stuff.
>>CONNER: He didn't
drink alcohol either.
>>REGINA: No.
But these prescription
drugs were really
taking him down fast.
Now, let's talk about
what happens afterward.
So he kind of falls down
in popularity a bit.
Beatles, everybody
else are up there.
Then he comes back for
this one grand resurgence.
So I saw that show.
It was beautiful.
Beautiful.
Yeah.
They've done a
documentary on it.
>>CONNER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so he's come back.
He's kind of at the
top again, but it's not
working for him anymore.
It's kind of over.
He's had a baby.
I mean, Lisa Marie is there,
but life isn't working for him
and the drugs are starting
to have an effect.
And you can't get that high
anymore if you can't go and get
the real high that
he really wants,
which is to be in
his more divine self.
>>CONNER: Yeah.
And I think, again, he
was doomed from the start.
And I try to offer
different reasons
why he couldn't shake it.
And we all know that
recovery, the mystic path
is not a straight line.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CONNER: It's a labyrinth.
>>CONNER: And we fall.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CONNER: But with
Elvis, I think
he was broken by the blue
alien light and the visitations
that he had.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CONNER: The death
of Jesse, Gladys.
Poverty, too.
We have to forget.
Poverty, as we're
finding out, is traumatic
and it is epigenetic.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: And he grew up in,
like, North Korean like--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: All these things, and
then the death of his mother,
divorced with Priscilla-- just
all these things were too much,
in a time where he
just didn't have the--
>>REGINA: Resources.
>>CONNER: We're lucky
today we have a lot more.
He didn't have those
choices back then.
He had a persona, so
that started breaking.
But as I write in the book,
there's a concept called
"the wounded healer."
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CONNER: And the most powerful
shamans, magician and healers
are the broken ones.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: As children
in these tribes
either had a near-death
experience or a disease
or some trauma opened the
channels of communication,
and they become the
shaman of the tribe,
and they heal not in
spite of the wounds,
but because of their wounds.
They're in so much pain they
understand the pain of others.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CONNER: And they address them,
but it eventually destroys them
and there's traditions
in circumpolar
shaman tribe's, shamans
in north and south,
they end up like Elvis.
They end up as fat drug
addicts, sick people.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>CONNER: Just there.
And the tribe's like,
well, that's your job.
You're the one who has to heal
us and entertain us and advise
us.
And the shaman is like,
I know, that's my job.
And they die.
And Elvis was
carrying that burden.
He was a wounded
healer, a shaman.
And I have other theories.
I try to approach
it from Jungian,
alchemical, different theories.
We'll never know.
It's a mystery.
>>REGINA: One thing that
seems to me to be clear,
he was an avatar.
He came to this planet
to transform the times.
And he did.
He transformed the times.
He transformed music, he
transformed this group
of people that are in these
middle years called teenagers.
And he was a great healer.
And anyone who was able
to go and connect with him
live, he felt their energy that
it would radiate off of him.
And so he died young.
He died young.
Let's move on past all
that to a few of the things
because we're
almost out of time.
I know, it just flies
when you're having fun.
A few of the incidences--
because there's one
I remember that I just
really loved-- of the people
he reached out to
from beyond the grave.
All these people say,
I saw Elvis, this.
Well, some of them are
actually seeing Elvis.
Elvis, he could manifest
into this dimension
and he came repeatedly
into people's dreams.
He didn't stop.
He hasn't stopped.
He wanted you to tell this
story in its complete form.
So just to wrap it up, how do
you feel having taken this on?
And do you still have a
relationship with Elvis?
>>CONNER: Yes.
I mean, again, I was not an
Elvis fan, so I had an event--
but I felt as I
write in the book,
it's like friend
asks you for a favor.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: Says, look,
people don't know my story.
I want people to know the truth.
I'm still around.
Do you mind doing this for me?
And I said, I'll do it.
Except he's very demanding.
He's just like in
the book, 'cause
I would wake up in the morning
and I'd feel this presence.
I was like, Elvis, it's
6:00 in the morning.
>>REGINA: I'm tired.
>>CONNER: Can I please sleep?
And I'd have to get up
and start typing because I
felt if I didn't type this--
like, the spirits,
they demand from Elvis.
And so he was like a friend.
I remember writing
the first draft
and I started crying
because I was like,
I want to see my friend.
I don't want to
be with my friend.
I miss him already.
And then I did the second
draft and everything.
So it was doing a
favor for a friend.
I think it's the
best thing we can do.
Like, we go back
to his kindness.
He was doing favors
for his friends.
He was always approachable.
Even if you wanted to
talk about relationship,
even if he was high, he
would sit there, all right,
let's talk.
You need money?
I'll give you money.
You need a Coke?
He'd see a woman in the rain,
he'd take off his $30,000, here,
and just walk away.
>>REGINA: What a beautiful soul.
>>CONNER: He was.
He was just, uh--
>>REGINA: Well, I just
want to thank you so much.
So thoroughly enjoyed this book.
I've told everyone about it.
I'm doing a book club
featuring your book,
and you've been kind enough to
say you'll come on live with us.
>>CONNER: I can't wait.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CONNER: And I can't wait.
>>REGINA: Everybody's
so excited about it.
So that's coming up
sometime in the summer.
And I just-- again, thank you
for allowing yourself to be,
well, invaded by
and guided by Elvis.
>>CONNER: Oh, thank
you for having me.
It was my pleasure.
And it's my pleasure to Elvis.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Elvis.
Again, the title of
this fascinating book
is The Occult Elvis.
And it makes us wonder, how many
more spiritual avatars are there
among the stars?
Until next time.
Thank you for joining
us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]